SINGAPORE &ndash; Iron-ore&rsquo;s attempt at a rebound lasted just a few short hours as investor concern over robust supplies, including near-record port stockpiles, and speculation some traders in China were rushing to offload holdings combined to snuff out the brief gain. In Singapore, SGX AsiaClear futures fell 2.1% to $59.70 a metric ton, overturning an earlier climb of as much as 2.7%. In China, the most-active contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange pared a 5% jump to close just 1.1% higher. Benchmark spot prices tumbled toward $60 a dry ton. The commodity plunged into a bear market last month amid concern low-cost mine supplies will go on rising just as China&rsquo;s mills enter a weaker period for demand and policy makers in Asia&rsquo;s top economy move to rein in leverage. With stockpiles at mainland ports still near unprecedented levels, Shanghai Cifco Futures Co. said in a note on Monday signs are now emerging that traders are dumping their holdings, with some transactions done at low prices. &ldquo;Iron-ore currently holds the title of being the weakest commodity product,&rdquo; Xu Huimin, an analyst at Huatai Futures Co in Shanghai, said by email on Monday. &ldquo;Traders absolutely don&rsquo;t wish to hold it. I guess pressure from the arrivals of future shipments is too great.&rdquo; Spot ore with 62% content in Qingdao lost 2.6% to $60.15 a dry ton, the lowest level since Oct. 24, according to Metal Bulletin. Prices have sunk 37% since hitting $94.86 in February, the highest since 2014. Trade figures from China on Monday showed a mixed picture. While the nation imported less ore in April, it&rsquo;s still purchased the most ever over the first four months. In April, purchases were 82.23-million tons, lower than in March and also weaker than the same month in 2016. In the January-to-April period, imports expanded 8.6% to 353-million tons, according to customs data. LARGEST BUYER Port inventories have risen for the past two weeks to stand at 131.95-million tons, according to Shanghai Steelhome E-Commerce Co. That&rsquo;s near the record 132.5-million tons in March, and up from about 100-million a year ago. China is the largest buyer, accounting for about two-thirds of global cargoes. Steel cargoes from China are on the wane, according to the customs data. Exports shrank to 6.49-million tons last month from 7.56-million in March and 9.08-million a year ago, official figures showed. Total exports in the first four months have fallen 26% from last year. Miners&rsquo; shares declined on Monday along with iron ore. In London, Rio, BHP and Anglo American all fell more than 2%.