PERTH (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Queensland government has opened more than 270 km2 of land for bids from coal explorers. State Development and Natural Resources and Mines Minister Dr Anthony Lynham on Friday announced tenders for four blocks in the Bowen basin, the first release of Queensland coal country in four years. &ldquo;Resource developments which create jobs and attract economic investment to our regional communities must start with exploration,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;This land release is a significant opportunity for explorers to gain access to land with the potential for thermal and metallurgical coal in a word-leading production region.&rdquo; Since 2013, coal exploration licences have only been available in Queensland through competitive tender, and the only tender under this process saw five permits awarded in the northern Bowen basin in 2014. Lynham said the exploration programme concept delivered long-term planning certainty for explorers and early advice to the local traditional owners, landholders and councils. &ldquo;Queensland is the world&rsquo;s largest global exporter of metallurgical coal, shipping more than 162-million tonnes last year worth an estimated A$17-billion, with continued high demand for our thermal coal. &ldquo;The land on offer is surrounded by existing coal mines, from Middlemount in the north to Cook and Blackwater to the south.&rdquo; The area is also serviced by Aurizon&rsquo;s electrified Goonyella and Blackwater coal rail networks, providing access to the coal export terminals of Hay Point and Dalrymple Bay to the north and the Port of Gladstone to the south. &ldquo;Queensland&rsquo;s high standards of safety of environmental management, and a history of sustainable and innovative exploration and production practices, offer a safe, secure and attractive location for investment,&rdquo; Lynham said. The Queensland Resources Council (QRC) said that the state government&rsquo;s decision was a compelling case for investment into the sector with some of the best quality coal in the world already being exported from the area. &ldquo;This is a significant land release with four blocks in the coal-rich Bowen basin opened up for bids from explorers and it&rsquo;s the first land release in four years,&rdquo; QRC Chief Executive Ian Macfarlane said. &ldquo;I congratulate the government on this proactive step to encourage more exploration which will not only benefit the coal sector, but is good news for local communities and local businesses. &ldquo;It has been 15 months since the government appointed its first Resources Investment Commissioner focused on identifying and driving economic opportunities for the sector and local and overseas investors will be interested in these blocks.&rdquo; Preferred tenderers must meet environmental, native title and land access requirements before commencing on-ground exploration activity. Tenders will close on August 24.