VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Canadian gold producer Eldorado Gold has confirmed on Wednesday that it has received the Olympias operating permit and the modified electromechanical installation permit for the tailings management facility at Kokkinolakkas, from the Greek Ministry of Energy and Environment. The permits were issued in the wake of mounting pressure on the Greek government to expedite permit approvals for the Kassandra mines, which include Skouries, Olympias projects, as well as the operating Stratoni mine, in Halkidiki. The announcement followed on the heels of Eldorado on Monday threatening to halt further investment at its Greek development projects, and mere days before the company and the Greek government head to arbitration on Friday.&nbsp; The Olympias operating permit is valid for three years from the date of issue. Eldorado employs about 950 people at Olympias. However, the Vancouver-based company advised that it is still awaiting approval of the technical study for the old Olympias mine closure and the installation permits for the paste plants at Olympias, as well as the amended electromechanical installation permit for the Skouries flotation plant, and other matters including, but not limited to, the relocation of antiquities at the Skouries site. Eldorado advised that it is also awaiting further detail from the Greek government regarding the pending arbitration process, which the government has publicly indicated that formal notification will be issued on Friday. Eldorado said it is confident that any potential arbitration will once more demonstrate that the company had adhered to all applicable laws and regulations. The company, which maintains a TSX and NYSE listing, said it will reassess its investment options in Greece after it has received approval and receipt of all the required permits, clarity around the arbitration process and a supportive government open to discussions surrounding the use and implementation of best available technologies. &quot;This is a positive step forward; however, we are still waiting on other permits. Open dialogue with the government would be the company&#39;s preference rather than legal recourse and arbitration but we are confident that any potential arbitration will again demonstrate Eldorado&#39;s adherence to all applicable laws and regulations and its commitment to developing its Greek assets safely, responsibly and with utmost care for the environment,&rdquo; stated Eldorado president and CEO George Burns. Burns said on Monday that the miner would not continue to &ldquo;put capital at risk&rdquo; without the necessary permits and licences for the construction and development of the Skouries and Olympias projects, in which it had already invested $750-million to date. Eldorado paid nearly $2-billion for the Kassandra mines in 2012 and Burns said that, since the acquisition, the group had invested an additional $1-billion in Greece. Eldorado also owns the Perama Hill and Sapes projects, in Thrace. These assets are already on care and maintenance, pending approvals for an environmental impact study for Perama Hill and a drilling permit for Sapes. The positive news sent the company&#39;s TSX-listed stock soaring 23% in early trading on Wednesday, to C$2.97 apiece.