SAN FRANCISCO &ndash; The Navajo generating station, the biggest coal-fired power plant in the US West, will live to see another two years. On Monday, Navajo Nation leaders approved a lease with the plant&rsquo;s utility owners that will keep the ailing, 2 250 MW complex operating through December 2019. The owners signalled on Tuesday that they&rsquo;ll sign the deal this week, the Navajo Nation Council said by email. The agreement was the Navajo Nation&rsquo;s last hope in keeping the coal plant located on reservation land in the Four Corners area of Arizona running for a little while longer. Without it, the plant&rsquo;s utility owners led by Salt River Project said they&rsquo;d cease operation at the start of July and immediately begin decommissioning activities. Under the new lease, Salt River said retirement of the plant will now begin after 2019. &ldquo;The owners are very pleased that the Navajo Nation Council approved the replacement lease,&rdquo; Mike Hummel, deputy general manager of Salt River Project, said in a statement Tuesday. &ldquo;This agreement provides meaningful benefits for all involved and creates a path forward during this challenging transition.&rdquo; The fight to rescue the Navajo coal plant, which is facing fierce competition from generators fuelled by cheap natural gas, is testing President Donald Trump&rsquo;s resolve to rescue America&rsquo;s coal industry and bring mining jobs back. Tribal leaders have appealed to the administration for help, and US Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has said the agency&rsquo;s looking at all options to save it. The new lease would preserve more than 800 jobs at the power plant and coal mine that supplies it, said Jared Touchin, a tribal council spokesman. The agreement would also hand the tribe $110-million in lease payments, $39-million in coal purchases and $18-million from savings for not decommissioning certain assets. The tribe&rsquo;s leaders have been working with federal and state officials to try to line up a new owner of the facility that could operate the plant beyond 2019, Touchin said. The current owners would like a potential buyer lined up by Oct. 1, he said. A sale faces an uphill battle given the weak economics for coal and the high cost of retrofits and repairs. To make the plant a more attractive asset, a member of the Arizona Corporation Commission has proposed that the US Interior Department, which has a 24% stake in the plant, commit to covering half of its maintenance costs. The plant&rsquo;s operations &quot;can continue while stakeholders examine opportunities for a new operating partner to extend the life of the plant beyond its original 50-year lease,&rdquo; Zinke said in an emailed statement.