VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Canadian graphite project developer Energizer Resources has appointed former MD of Africa-based mining engineering and construction company DRA Africa Johann de Bruin to oversee all aspects regarding the operational readiness of the Molo project, in Madagascar, as the company prepares to start procurement for mine infrastructure. Building on the positive results of the front-end engineering and design (FEED) study, which was completed in November, Toronto-based Energizer has decided to initiate the detailed engineering study, which is expected to be completed by March 31. According to the company, the detailed engineering study represents the final stage of project development and is performed before project construction starts, when the procurement of equipment to build a mine is imminent. &ldquo;The decision to initiate detailed engineering indicates the advanced stage that Energizer has achieved in the development of its Molo project and our expectation that we can achieve our goal to begin producing graphite by year-end. The addition of Johann to our already solid engineering team signals yet another major milestone in the development of the Molo mine,&rdquo; Energizer president and CEO Craig Scherba stated. DRA prepared the company&#39;s feasibility study on the Molo project in 2015, with De Bruin, at that time, the primary liaison between DRA and Energizer. De Bruin also served on Energizer&#39;s board of directors from 2012 until 2014, when he stepped down to focus on his increasing responsibilities as DRA MD. Specifically, De Bruin will be tasked with reviewing and forming the Molo mine operating team; reviewing all mine-item cost structures to ensure the project is optimally prepared for the implementation phase; and assisting in the execution of the project. De Bruin will support Energizer senior VP for operations Robin Borley and, together, they will ensure that the project, post-funding, meets all operational requirements during the implementation process. Borley is the former director of mining for DRA. He joined Energizer full-time in 2013 as both senior VP and director, and is an expert in project set-up and technical mining knowledge. &ldquo;The proven record that Johann and Robin have in delivering complex projects in complex jurisdictions will further aid to reduce the overall project risk and is a differentiator to the many projects out there where management may lack the experience in delivering a mine. Investors can take great comfort in the fact that Energizer&#39;s team has the proven experience to deliver the project once funding is secured,&rdquo; Scherba said.