JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The regulation of trackless mobile machinery (TMM) in the mining industry will be the subject of ongoing debate between mines and the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate in the next couple of years, when further regulations may be promulgated. At ENSafrica&rsquo;s Mine Health and Safety (MHS) Seminar 2017, on Tuesday, ENSafrica director Warren Hendricks noted that amendments to MHS regulations and to the Minerals Act Regulations, as well as the introduction of new guidelines for the compilation of mandatory codes of practice, were introduced over the last two years to improve mine safety. While incidents cannot always be foreseen or prevented, recent developments in the Mine Health and Safety Act (MHSA) and its regulations over the last two years will further curb fatalities or injuries in the local mining industry. Last year, transport factors, including those related to rail-bound equipment, accounted for 14% of the 73 fatalities recorded in the mining industry. The amendments introduced in the form of the TMM regulations in February 2015, legally obligate mining companies to install a proximity detection system device, only where there is a significant risk of collision. The regulations state that an employer must take reasonably practicable measures to ensure that pedestrians are prevented from being injured, as well as that all underground diesel-powered TMMs are able to automatically detect the presence of any pedestrian within its vicinity. Speaking to Mining Weekly Online, Hendricks pointed out that the regulations came into operation on May 27, 2015, with the exception of sub-regulations pertaining to devices which automatically stop TMMs without human intervention, in the event of a potential collision between the TMM and pedestrians and other TMMs. &ldquo;This is not in play yet and, therefore, the sub-regulations relating to such anti-collision devices have no force and effect at this point in time. However, pending further notification from the Mineral Resources Minister, it could come into effect at some point in time in the future,&rdquo; said Hendricks. He added that, to date, there has been no further communication or expected communication made with regards to these sub-regulations, as the commencement of such sub-regulations may depend on the practical implementation of these devices in the industry, the costs involved and the technology devices available to the market. &ldquo;These devices need to be implemented and tested practically at different mines. The available technology needs to be tested thoroughly in relation to the various practical circumstances that a TMM may encounter during the daily operation at a mine,&rdquo; Hendricks noted, adding that if the sub-regulations had been promulgated in 2015, there would, in all likelihood, have been an outcry from industry. He said certain industry groups were already implementing such tests. &ldquo;To a certain degree, the technology is available internationally, but has not yet been tested locally,&rdquo; he added.