JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; An independent committee set up by Gemfields to evaluate Pallinghurst Resources&rsquo; unsolicited offer to acquire the remaining interest in the company it does not already own, has said the offer &ldquo;significantly&rdquo; undervalues Gemfields, its assets and its leading position in the coloured gemstone sector. Brian Gilbertson&rsquo;s Pallinghurst on May 19 announced its intention to buy out Gemfields&rsquo; minority shareholders in exchange for $150-million in Pallinghurst shares and to delist Gemfields from the LSE&rsquo;s Aim market. This comes as Pallinghurst, which already owns 47% of Gemfields, seeks to transition to a diversified miner from its current role as an investment fund. &ldquo;The independent committee is unanimous in concluding that the unsolicited offer from Pallinghurst is derisory and clearly undervalues the company. The company has an exceptional management team with a clear strategy to deliver additional shareholder value on a standalone basis from our unique asset base. &ldquo;The independent committee believes the unsolicited offer has the potential to dilute Gemfields&rsquo; shareholders with inferior assets that offer exposure to more volatile commodities and with less attractive prospects,&rdquo; committee chairperson Graham Mascall said in a statement to Gemfields shareholders on Wednesday. The committee, which also includes Clive Newall, Finn Behnken, Ian Harebottle and Janet Boyce, advised Gemfields&rsquo; shareholders not to take any action on the proposed offer. Analysts at SP Angel, meanwhile, commented in a note on Wednesday that there is &quot;tremendous unrealised value in the Faberge brand&quot;, which is owned by Gemfields. &quot;Pallinghurst understands the value of the Faberge brand and how to use it to create value, particularly in the event of a potential sale to a brand leader like LVMH, De Beers or Gucci. &quot;We currently value Gemfields at 70p a share on its mining business. We reckon there is potential to realise a further 18p a share on the sale of the Faberge business and that a good sale of Faberge by Pallinghurst might effectively pay for the majority of its acquisition of the cash generative mining business,&quot; the analysts added.