PERTH &ndash; Iron-ore markets are heading for a very bumpy ride in the next couple of years, marked by significant price swings as the steel industry in China restructures, according to the developer of a planned $3.7-billion mine in Australia. &ldquo;Extreme volatility is going to be a hallmark of the market for at least a year or two,&rdquo; said Andrew Stocks, MD of Iron Road, whose partner in the mine, port and rail project is China Railway Group, the world&rsquo;s second-largest infrastructure builder. &ldquo;We shouldn&rsquo;t be afraid of that, that is just the way it is.&rdquo; Iron ore has swung from a bear to bull market all within three months, rebounding from a year low of $53.36 a metric ton last month on a surge driven by mills in China boosting purchases to replenish inventories, with higher-grade ore in demand. This volatility is the result of the Chinese market transitioning to a cleaner, leaner production phase, according to Stocks, who sees prices averaging about $70 a ton over the longer term. &ldquo;You have got a fair bit of iron ore around the world,&rdquo; he said in an interview June 29. This oversupply has led to record stockpiles sitting at ports and mills that may take a year to recede to a reasonable level, he said. BHP Billiton last week said it expects a smoothing out of the recent volatility. The addition of low-cost supply coming from rivals including Vale SA&rsquo;s S11D project will see fewer short, sharp shocks in the price, it said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says prices are heading lower and Citigroup forecasts a slump back to the $40s. Ore with 62% content delivered to Qingdao has jumped about 20% from the year-low last month and is trading near the highest level since early May. Prices were at $64.29 a dry ton Monday, according to Metal Bulletin. Iron Road is in talks with China Development Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and China Construction Bank about providing up to $3-billion in financing for the project that will produce about 20-million tons a year of iron concentrate, a higher grade product, for at least 25 years. A decision may be made within six to nine months, Stocks said.