VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; In the hope of capitalising on the growing demand and rising prices for lithium, explorer Argentina Lithium &amp; Energy is currently mobilising equipment to create access routes on the 20 500 ha Arizaro property, located in the middle of South American&rsquo;s prolific &lsquo;lithium triangle&rsquo; &ndash; home to over 70% of the world&#39;s known lithium reserves. The Vancouver-based company plans to undertake near-surface geochemical sampling and a vertical electric sounding geophysical survey to delineate conductive zones at depth that may host lithium-bearing brines. Data from this first stage of the programme will be used to define targets for a drill campaign that is planned to start early in the second quarter, president and CEO Nikolaos Cacos tells Mining Weekly Online in a recent interview. &ldquo;We are excited to be taking the first step in a systematic exploration programme to investigate the Arizaro project for lithium-rich brines. At the same time we are initiating baseline environmental studies and community engagement programmes, in anticipation of drilling, and potentially resource delineation, later this year,&rdquo; he stated. BLUE SKY POTENTIAL On October 28, 2016, Argentina Lithium entered into an option agreement to acquire a 100% interest in the Arizaro lithium brine project, located on the Arizaro Salar in the province of Salta. Under the terms of the option agreement, the company may acquire a 100% interest in the Arizaro project by making scheduled cash payments to the vendor totalling $6-million, incurring exploration expenditures totalling $4.2-million and issuing 2.5-million common shares. Director David Terry explains to Mining Weekly Online that the Arizaro project consists of 20 500 ha in the central core of the Arizaro Salar. The salar is situated in the high plateau (Puna) region of northwestern Argentina, at an average altitude of 3 600 m above sea level. The salar covers an area of 1 600 km2 within a watershed of 6 000 km2, making it the third largest salar in the lithium triangle, after Uyuni, in Bolivia and Atacama, in Chile. The salar is in a hyper-arid region, receiving on average less than 30 mm of rain a year, a necessary condition for the creation of evaporative brines. Drill holes of about 100 m depth, related to copper exploration to the north of the project area by previous workers in the Arizaro Salar, detected interbedded evaporate and volcanic material, reflecting the volcanic activity that accompanied the evaporite sedimentation in the region. The presence of geological structures such as faults and solution channels were also detected. &ldquo;The Arizaro Salar remains virtually unexplored at depth, and this will be the primary exploration target for the company,&rdquo; Terry said. Previous work undertaken by the US Geological Survey sampled brines from the subsurface (about 2 m depth) that returned lithium values up to 160 mg/ , confirming the presence of lithium in the basin. The Arizaro Salar is strategically located with, surprisingly, substantial infrastructure considering that it is located in the Andes, which includes a railway that connects to the deepwater port of Antofagasta, nearby advanced mining projects such as First Quantum Minerals&#39; Taca Taca project, that are expected to bring significant development of access routes and power to the area, and the local availability of water to support development. DIFFERENTIATED EXPLORER Cacos pointed out that the company has the support of Argentina-focused The Grosso Group, led by Argentina mining pioneer and chairperson Joseph Grosso. Grosso was one of the first movers when the country opened up its mining sector in 1993, having forged deep ties with both public and private players in the country. Cacos further pointed out that Argentina Lithium benefits from the expertise of Dr Daniel Galli, who has developed and employed a proprietary patented process to produce lithium carbonate and battery grade lithium hydroxide from brines. The company hopes to have an initial resource delineated by year-end, Cacos said. According to Cacos, Argentina Lithium is in acquisition mode, in the hope of capitalising on significant room for consolidation in the junior lithium space. To this end, a strategy is currently underway to further expand the property holdings on the Arizaro Salar, and acquire other high-potential lithium brine projects in Argentina, he stated. &ldquo;We have already been approached by battery manufacturers knocking on our door looking for lithium, just underscoring that the demand fundamentals remain strong,&rdquo; Cacos stated.