JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; While government is committed to finding a reasonable solution to regulate the artisanal mining sector, in South Africa this will only apply to surface projects, and not to those undertaken in underground areas by the many illegal miners referred to as zama-zamas, Mineral Resources Deputy Minister Godfrey Oliphant said on Friday. &ldquo;There is no ways that we, as the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), can in good conscience grant permits to artisanal miners for deep-level mines, that in most cases are being accessed using old, abandoned shaft infrastructure, which are unsafe. We would essentially be sending people to their deaths.&rdquo; The Deputy Minister was speaking at a press briefing on the sidelines of a workshop on illegal and artisanal mining, in Johannesburg. The workshop was hosted by the DMR in partnership with the State-owned Mine Health and Safety Council under the theme &lsquo;Combating illegal mining and promoting artisanal mining in South Africa&rsquo;. He said the DMR spent a great deal of time and resources sealing and resealing old mining shafts throughout the country. Oliphant pointed out that, in Gauteng alone, the DMR had over the past few years closed 69 old, abandoned shafts and would be continuing these efforts. He noted that State-owned entities, the Council for Geoscience and Mintek, had been working &ldquo;very hard&rdquo; on the DMR&rsquo;s rehabilitation programme to close all &ldquo;dangerous mining related holes,&rdquo; which was an ongoing programme. SUGGESTING SOLUTIONS Moreover, Oliphant remarked that, during the course of the workshop, a number of proposals had been made by government entities and other industry stakeholders regarding workable solutions to the issue of tackling illegal mining and promoting artisanal mining in South Africa. &ldquo;Our aim is to allow artisanal miners to undertake mining on surface deposits by supporting them in attaining the required permits and procuring the necessary personal protective equipment,&rdquo; he commented. Oliphant revealed that the DMR had already done this in eight areas where the rehabilitation of old mining areas had been completed, as well as at locations where the department had identified mineral outcrops and/or residue on surface, in Gauteng. He added that the department was also engaging with mining companies to identify if they had tailings dumps that were not being processed and whether those dumps could be sold off to artisanal operators. Further, Oliphant noted that Mintek had developed a process called Retreatment Flowsheet for Gold and Uranium Tailings (Reflaut) that could potentially be of use to artisanal operators. The Reflaut plant removes gold, as well as harmful sulphites and radioactive uranium, from tailings, thereby significantly reducing the mineral content that is responsible for generating this type of acid mine drainage. Another proposal raised was that there could be a moratorium granted to illegal miners to register as certified artisanal miners. However, Oliphant stressed that this would require consultation with the South African Police Service and the Department of Home Affairs, besides others. &ldquo;We are receiving many innovative proposals; however, currently, we do not have conclusive solutions to announce,&rdquo; he stated. &nbsp; Oliphant said that illegal mining was a &ldquo;seasonal occurrence&rdquo;, in that if commodity prices increased, the number of illegal miners tended to increase, and when prices declined so did the number of illegal miners. He highlighted that the problem remained that illegal mining &ndash; whether widespread or more isolated &ndash; was a danger to the miners, infrastructure, local communities and the environment. Moreover, Oliphant asserted that it fueled illegal commodity syndicates, drug dealers and other criminal elements locally and worldwide. He further noted that, while the exact economic cost of illegal mining in South Africa was very difficult to determine, according to reports made available to the DMR, the loss of revenue for the State and mines as a result of just the smuggling of gold out of the country was around R6-billion a year. &ldquo;Obviously one can only imagine what the total would be if we factored in the illegal mining that occurs in other commodities as well.&rdquo; Oliphant added that it had been proposed that the DMR engage with communities where illegal miners live and/or operate to determine how best to address this challenge. The workshop was a closed event; however, the department said it would release a summary of the discussions and proposals made during the workshop in &ldquo;due course&rdquo;.