PERTH (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association (Appea) has slammed a new report by the Climate Council that claimed more gas production will result in higher electricity prices and pollution. In its report &#39;Pollution and Price: the Cost of Investing in Gas&#39;, the Climate Council claimed that gas power could be as polluting as coal, and could contribute to Australia&rsquo;s emissions and climate change. &ldquo;As well as emissions from gas power plants, producing gas, particularly unconventional gas like coal seam gas, releases methane, a greenhouse gas 86 times more potent than carbon dioxide,&rdquo; Climate Councillor Andrew Stock said. Stock said Australia&rsquo;s liquefied natural gas exports continue to push up gas prices across the country because they link domestic gas to volatile world oil prices. Combined with a lack of competition among local gas power companies, it was a recipe for a high cost, high emission power future. &ldquo;Australians need to know that more gas doesn&rsquo;t mean cheaper power. If our government places more reliance on gas power instead of renewables in the domestic market all it will do is drive up electricity bills more.&rdquo; Appea CEO Malcolm Roberts said on Thursday that the Climate Council&rsquo;s research was out of step with a vast body of authoritative, independent analysis that shows that gas is critical to reducing emissions over the next 20 years. &ldquo;The International Energy Agency, the Climate Change Authority and a host of independent experts all agree that the world should be using more gas, not less, in the transition to a low-emissions economy,&rdquo; said Roberts. &ldquo;Australians have seen how gas-fired generation underpins energy security.&nbsp; The Australian Energy Market Operator has made this point absolutely clear. &ldquo;Until we have large-scale, affordable and accessible storage, intermittent renewable energy must be supported by fast-response, reliable gas-fired generation. Australia should seek to emulate the US in slashing emissions by increasing the use of natural gas for generating electricity.&rdquo; In relation to price, Roberts said that the only way to reduce gas prices was to increase gas supply and the number of gas suppliers. &ldquo;There is no doubt we are facing a tight east coast gas market. But we must solve this by fixing the underlying causes rather than creating new problems. &ldquo;Gas has a critical role to play in a low-emissions future as both a replacement for coal and a partner for renewables. &ldquo;If the Climate Council were serious about reducing Australia&rsquo;s emissions, and doing so in a sustainable and cost-effective manner, it would support the expansion of gas-fired power generation.&rdquo;