Hong Kong (Bloomberg) - China&rsquo;s state-owned enterprise regulator has asked coal mining giant Shenhua Group Corp. and power generator China Datang Corp. to discuss a possible merger, according to people with knowledge of the situation. The talks are at an early stage and there&rsquo;s no guarantee of a deal, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the information isn&rsquo;t public. A merger would combine China&rsquo;s biggest coal producer with one of its largest power generators to create a utility giant with about 1.66-trillion yuan ($241-billion) of assets. Datang International Power Generation Co., Datang&rsquo;s Hong Kong-listed unit, rose as much as 7.1%, the biggest intraday gain in six weeks, to HK$2.27 as of 9:34 a.m. local time. China Shenhua Energy Co., Shenhua&rsquo;s Hong Kong-listed company, lost 0.4%. The city&rsquo;s benchmark Hang Seng Index was little changed. The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission encouraged the discussions as the two businesses complement each other and a merger would be in line with China&rsquo;s supply-side reform policies, the people said. Sasac didn&rsquo;t respond to a fax seeking comment. Spokesmen for Shenhua and Datang didn&rsquo;t answer calls outside normal business hours or respond to emails. &ldquo;If successful, this may be a good model for China&rsquo;s coal and power industry reforms as a company with strong coal and coal-fired power assets could maintain reasonable profits in almost all circumstances,&rdquo; said Lin Boqiang, an adviser to the country&rsquo;s National Energy Administration and director of Xiamen University&rsquo;s China Center for Energy Economics Research. SOE Overhaul A merger would build on President Xi Jinping&rsquo;s efforts to cut the nation&rsquo;s industrial overcapacity, accelerate the drive to overhaul its bloated state-owned sector and&nbsp; reduce its reliance on coal. China will speed up mergers and acquisitions of state-owned firms in coal, power, machinery and steel this year, Sasac vice-chairman Zhang Xiwu said in Beijing earlier this month. Shenhua&rsquo;s assets totaled 931.4-billion yuan in 2015, with Datang&rsquo;s totaling 729.5-billion yuan, according to their websites. Last year, Shenhua submitted a proposal to Sasac about merging with state-owned China General Nuclear Power Corp., Bloomberg reported in July. Both companies said they weren&rsquo;t in merger talks. Listed unit China Shenhua Energy this month posted its first profit growth in four years and issued a special dividend that sent share prices up by more than 20%. Datang International Power Generation swung to a 2.75-billion yuan loss for 2016 on higher coal costs. Shenhua Group&rsquo;s power-generation capacity totaled 78.5 gigawatts in 2015, while China Datang had 127.2 gigawatts, according to their websites. A combined company would top power behemoth China Huaneng Group&rsquo;s 160.6 gigawatts. The country had 1.5 terawatts of power capacity in 2015.