PERTH (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Lithium developer Pilbara Minerals has signed a farm-in and joint venture agreement with iron-ore miner Atlas Iron over the Mt Francisco lithium-tantalum project, near the Pilgangoora lithium project. Under the terms of the agreement, Pilbara will acquire an initial 51% interest in the lithium, tantalum and tin mineral rights at Mt Francisco for A$2.3-million, which can be paid in either shares or cash. If the consideration is paid in shares, the shares will be issued at a 5% discount to the five-day volume weighted average price of Pilbara&#39;s shares. By spending a further A$1-million on exploration over a 12-month period, Pilbara could increase its holding in Mt Francisco to 70%. By developing the project to definitive feasibility study and a decision to mine over a further two-year period, Pilbara can increase its holding in the tenement&rsquo;s lithium, tantalum and tin mineral rights to 80%. Atlas will be free carried for its share of expenditure up to a decision to mine and, once this point has been reached, the company can elect to dilute its interest or take a 2% gross revenue royalty. Pilbara told shareholders on Wednesday that the Mt Francisco project is considered to represent one of the highest-quality lithium-tantalum exploration assets in the Pilbara region outside of the Pilgangoora project and ASX-listed Mineral Resources&rsquo; Wodgina project. &ldquo;With the addition of Mt Francisco to our portfolio, we believe Pilbara now has ownership of the two best lithium exploration assets in the world-class Pilgangoora district,&rdquo; said Pilbara MD and CEO Ken Brinsden. &ldquo;Mt Francisco represents the last remaining major occurrence of outcropping pegmatites in this region, which has not yet been comprehensively explored, and therefore represents an exceptional exploration target.&rdquo; Pilbara will immediately start a review of the Mt Francisco historical data, with a view of identifying drill targets, in parallel with starting negotiations with traditional owners to secure access for drilling. Meanwhile, Pilbara has also entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Atlas for a proposed infrastructure service agreement, under which Atlas will provide access, processing, bulk handling and haulage services for the run-of-mine (ROM) ore operation from the Pilgangoora project. The MoU is a precursor to reaching a final binding agreement, under which Pilbara could undertake ROM mining at Pilgangoora using Atlas&rsquo;s existing infrastructure and its port access and capacity at the Port Hedland facilities. The Pilgangoora project is expected to deliver 314 000 t/y of 6% spodumene concentrate and 321 000 lb/y of tantalite.