PERTH (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Minerals Council of Australia (MCA) has proposed a number of measures to boost Australia&rsquo;s international engagement in its submission to the federal government&rsquo;s Foreign Policy White Paper, calling on the government to pursue further trade liberalisation, maintain an open foreign investment regime and foster greater engagement in meeting Asia&rsquo;s energy and infrastructure needs. A cross agency taskforce has been established within the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to develop the White Paper as a framework for international engagement over the next five to ten years. MCA CEO Brendan Pearson said on Tuesday that the industry body had also proposed the strengthening of Australia&rsquo;s ability to deal with &quot;geo-economic&quot; challenges by forming a new national economic and security council, bringing together senior Ministers, foreign, defence and security officials, as well as senior business leaders. The MCA&rsquo;s submission focused on the contribution that Australia&rsquo;s minerals and energy exports made to the country&rsquo;s economic and strategic relationships, noting that, in 2016, the country supplied over 60% of China&rsquo;s iron-ore imports and more than half of its metallurgical coal imports. Australia also supplied two-thirds of Japan&rsquo;s energy coal imports and about half of its coking coal needs and about 40% of Taiwan&rsquo;s energy coal requirements. &ldquo;Our trading relationship with China alone generates more than 5% of our gross domestic product,&rdquo; Pearson said. &ldquo;There is a further, less understood dimension to this relationship of deep economic interdependence. &ldquo;Australia&rsquo;s close trading relationship with East Asia means we have a big indirect stake in the exports of our regional trading partners. MCA analysis shows that there is more than $57-billion in Australian value add embedded in East Asian exports, including $27-billion of minerals and energy exports.&rdquo; The MCA&rsquo;s submission also identified emerging trends that pose risks to Australia&rsquo;s importance in the Asia Pacific region, including growing strategic competition in the Asia Pacific with the risk of disputes escalating into serious trans-Pacific trade conflicts, and the slowing world trade growth accompanied by a backlash against globalisation, rising protectionist sentiment and stalled momentum for trade liberalisation. The MCA&rsquo;s submission also highlighted a growing tendency for countries to pursue geo-economic strategies by deploying economic instruments to advance their political and strategic goals &ndash; and vice versa. The submission argued that the White Paper should map out how Australia will respond to these challenges, through both international and domestic policy.