MELBOURNE &ndash; The race is on to supply more of the cobalt needed for batteries in the fast-growing market for electric vehicles -- and that means fresh competition for the big players Glencore Plc and the Democratic Republic of Congo. A pipeline of projects is looming in places including Australia, the US and Canada after cobalt prices more than doubled in the past year. Glencore produces almost a third of the world&rsquo;s supply, mainly from the Congo, which is by far the biggest source, accounting for as much as 65%. Among those backing new global developments are-billionaire Anilarwal and mining tycoon Robert Friedland. They&rsquo;re aiming to capitalize as a battery boom sends demand for cobalt soaring more than 30-fold by 2030, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s going to have to be a response that goes beyond Congo,&rdquo; said Sam Riggall, chief executive officer of Friedland-backed Clean TeQ Holdings, which is developing a $680 million cobalt, nickel and scandium project about 350 kilometers (218 miles) west of Sydney. Congo&rsquo;s tight grip on the market is a concern for battery producers to auto makers, he said. &ldquo;They are desperately looking for sources of supply outside of Africa.&rdquo; The arrival of an era of battery-powered vehicles has already kick-started a period of unprecedented growth for the metal, Franck Schulders, Glencore&rsquo;s head of marketing, cobalt, said in an interview. Volkswagen and Ford Motor are among automakers investing in electric vehicles and the whole market could be worth $244-billion by 2025, Goldman Sachs Group said in a late 2015 report. Rising cobalt demand and flat supply in the 100 000 metric-tons-a-year market opened a 1 500 t deficit in 2016 that could triple this year, according to CRU Group. There&rsquo;s more than 370 undeveloped discoveries and at least a dozen viable projects outside Congo that could come online by 2023, CRU senior consultant Edward Spencer said in an email. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no way that current supply is going to keep up,&rdquo; said Matthew Painter, managing director of Ardea Resources, which is aiming to develop a former Vale SA deposit in Western Australia that the company estimates holds the developed world&rsquo;s largest cobalt resource. &ldquo;Some of the forecasts for cobalt supply are pretty dire.&rdquo; Cobalt on the London Metal Exchange traded at about $32 000 a ton at the end of 2016, up 36% from the previous year, and has rallied about 65% to more than $56 000 a ton this year. That&rsquo;s equivalent to more than $25.40 a pound. They&rsquo;re likely to double in 2017 and may remain above $20 a pound through the end of the decade, CRU&rsquo;s Spencer said. A typical electric car battery contains 15 kilograms of cobalt, while a laptop needs around 33 grams and a smartphone requires 6 grams, according to Sydney-based project developer Cobalt Blue Holdings. Glencore&rsquo;s Hong Kong-traded shares advanced 0.2% to HK$28.65 at 2:26 p.m. local time Friday. Almost all cobalt is produced as a by-product at nickel and copper mines and &ldquo;in terms of new projects, a higher cobalt price certainly makes some&rdquo; planned multi-metal developments more viable, said Macquarie Group&rsquo;s head of commodities research Colin Hamilton. While Congo will remain the dominant supplier of the metal, the nation&rsquo;s market share will fall as a result of developments elsewhere, he said. Australia, which holds about 14% of the world&rsquo;s known reserves, is poised for the largest growth in production in the six years through 2021, with output forecast to rise 31%, according to Business Monitor International Congo will add 24% over the same period, as output in China rises 10%, the data show. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a few new ideas, new mines and junior mining companies. They are all years away from production and they tend to be very small, like fantasies,&rdquo; said Benedikt Sobotka, CEO of Eurasian Resources Group, which produces copper and cobalt in Congo. &ldquo;They are not going to make a big difference for our industry.&rdquo; Projects in Congo from Glencore and Eurasian Resources could potentially add 40 000 tons of mined supply by 2022, according to CRU&rsquo;s Spencer. Congo is under pressure to restrict artisanal mining, including in the cobalt sector, which a 2016 Amnesty International report said has a prevalent use of child labor. Tesla Motors., among the largest consumers, undertook in 2014 to only source the metal from North American miners because of supply-chain concerns. Apple said in March it had expanded responsible sourcing efforts beyond conflict minerals to include cobalt. There&rsquo;s work across the cobalt supply chain &ldquo;to look at provenance, verification and that sort of due diligence,&rdquo; Anna Krutikov, Glencore&rsquo;s head of sustainable development, said in an interview. Glencore supports cooperatives in Congo with more than 3 000 members offering people alternative livelihoods to artisanal mining, including inriculture, she said.