VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Montreal-based Osisko Mining has identified a site near Lebel-sur-Quevillon, in Quebec, for the future mill complex that will treat ore from its flagship Windfall Lake gold project. Osisko stated Wednesday it intends to evaluate the site location through the environmental assessment process and in the preparation of a feasibility study for the Windfall Lake project. If the site in Lebel-sur-Quevillon is chosen to process ore from the Windfall Lake project, the mill could serve several other gold mines in the region, the company advised. The site is located near an existing industrial property of the former Domtar Corporation pulp and paper mill, about 11 km from the town and 103 km by existing all-weather gravel roads from the mine site. There are a Hydro-Quebec substation and a water pumping station next to the property. The site is located on Crown land immediately southeast of the municipal limit of Lebel-sur-Qu&eacute;villon, and Osisko holds the mineral exploration rights. Subject to the results of the environmental assessment and fesibility study, Osisko cited several reasons to choose the Lebel-sur-Quevillon site rather than build a mill at the mine site, including limiting Windfall Lake infrastructure to underground mining activity that greatly reduces the environmental footprint; access to existing grid power and the Hydro-Quebec electrical substation will eliminate the construction and costs of a 103-km power line to Windfall Lake as well as the corresponding environmental permitting along the power corridor; the existing water pumping station has ample capacity for a gold milling complex; having a regional work force at Lebel-sur-Quevillon reduces the need for a large construction and operations camp at Windfall Lake, and the rotational work force will be reduced; the cost savings on transportation and construction/operations logistics from existing rail and road access to Lebel-sur-Quevillon will offset the cost of transportation of ore; and there is also the potential for the mill to treat ore from other gold deposits within trucking distance of Lebel-sur-Quevillon. Osisko is well-funded with about C$190-million in cash and equity investments, and is carrying out an intensive definition drilling and large-scale exploration campaign on Windfall and the surrounding area. The company expects to publish an updated compliant resource estimate on the Windfall Lake project in the second half of 2017. Notably, Osisko advised that the Qu&eacute;villon exploration property acquisitions and agreement announced last month include about thirty known gold showings, as well as the Osborne-Bell gold deposit, which is located 32 km northwest of the proposed site. The Osborne-Bell deposit has been the object of significant historical drilling over the past fifteen years, and will be the focus of new drilling and resource re-evaluation by Osisko in 2017.