TORONTO (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The industry is constantly reducing the quality of its asset base and the only way to reverse the trend is to restart the &ldquo;exploration engine&rdquo;, Randgold Resources CEO Mark Bristow told an audience in Toronto this week. &ldquo;It is misguided to think cutting back on exploration is a good idea, because it creates the most value,&rdquo; he lamented during a keynote session at the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada&rsquo;s year convention in Toronto. He advises miners not to cut back on essentials such as geologists and exploration capital allocation, especially during the downturn &ndash; otherwise you have the wrong project.Today, the company still has 90 geologists on the payroll, having never retrenched one during the extended economic downturn. Bristow said only four gold majors are at or above their 2005 stock prices. Very few majors have so far ventured into Africa, but quickly retreated to their comfort business zones. &ldquo;If you want to hunt elephants, you have to go to elephant country. He says west, central and east Africa is prospective for significant discoveries. Companies chasing mergers and acquisitions should see that they are able to add significant value through organic exploration on the acquired assets to leverage organic growth. One of Africa&rsquo;s biggest gold miners Randgold Resources, the company&rsquo;s investment criteria with which it maintains and grows its 15-million ounce reserve base, involves a 20% internal rate of return hurdle, at a base case price of $1 000/oz gold, using spot input costs. A remarkable feature of Randgold&rsquo;s is the ability to build mines in Africa that usually are profitable in the first quarter after commissioning. Today, Randgold can produce gold for a decade at a conservative portfolio-wide base price assumption, giving it significant flexibility in a market of normalised volatility. GRASS ROOTS &ldquo;True value is found at the drill bit,&rdquo; Bristow said. The 30-year mining veteran looked back at 2005 as the start of a world-changing sequence of events when China joined the world economy, creating the unprecedented commodity supercycle. &ldquo;Most companies squandered funds and once-in a lifetime opportunities during the boom times. They snatched at short term gains,&rdquo; he explained. For Bristow, how companies&rsquo; the share prices fared during the significant market changes is the true measure of success. He says investors should ask whether stocks are more valuable now, than when bought and does it pay you dividends? The cyclical nature of mining leads to the question whether miners can replace what they take out of the ground. Bristow pointed to the calamitous effect of the supercycle has resulted in significant industry debt &ndash; the debt-to-Ebitda ratio has become worrying. The perception that noncash impairments do not matter is &ldquo;nonsense&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;In essence, they destroy value. The reserves-per-1 000-shares metric is in decline.&rdquo; PARTNERSHIPS Bristow said the company&rsquo;s decentralised structure, heightened accountability on the operations level. He noted that hiring local professionals makes business sense, since they are often the ones able to tough it out in difficult prospecting conditions. The company have considered more than 1 500 projects in the African regions it favours to find five world-class projects. He conceded that they might have missed out on two projects in Burkina Faso, but which did not fit the company&rsquo;s investment criteria any way, despite being legitimate projects in their own right. These were the Bissa deposit (Nordgold) and Kiaka (B2Gold). Bristow endorsed the African regions it operates in as being predictable in terms of geopolitical stability. He says management risk is a bigger concern that geopolitical risk. Randgold has built, financed and operates five gold mines in Africa &ndash; Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila, in Mali, Tongon in C&ocirc;te d&rsquo;Ivoire and Kibali in the DRC. The company also has a major project at Massawa, in Senega,l and a portfolio of exploration projects in the most prospective gold belts of West and Central Africa.