VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The newly installed coalition government of British Columbia has on Thursday outlined its plans to stop the expansion of the Kinder Morgan oil pipeline that transports Alberta crude to Vancouver. The federal government, under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, on November 29 approved Kinder Morgan&rsquo;s C$6.8-billion Trans Mountain Expansion project, which will match the existing 1953-built Trans Mountain pipeline system between Edmonton, Alberta, and Burnaby, British Columbia. This is expected to triple Canada&rsquo;s access to new crude markets, as the country looks to diversify oil exports away from the US, its largest customer. The Trans Mountain Expansion project has undergone an unprecedented level of scrutiny and review and is subject to 157 conditions from the National Energy Board and 37 conditions attached to the environmental certificate received early in January from the previous Liberal-led government of British Columbia. &ldquo;Our government made it clear that a seven-fold increase in heavy oil tankers in the Vancouver harbour is not in British Columbia&#39;s best interests. Not for our economy, our environment, or thousands of existing jobs. We will use all available tools to protect our coastal waters and our province&#39;s future,&rdquo; Environment and Climate Change Strategy Minister George Heyman stated on Thursday. The provincial government announced that it has retained Thomas Berger (QC, OC, OBC) as external counsel to government in the legal action related to the pipeline expansion project. &ldquo;We are committed to fighting for British Columbia&rsquo;s interests and it is government&rsquo;s desire to seek intervenor status in legal challenges to federal approval of the pipeline expansion and increased oil tanker traffic off British Columbia&#39;s coast. Berger will provide legal advice to government on the options for participation in legal challenges, and those hearings are scheduled to begin in federal court later this fall,&rdquo; attorney general David Eby advised. The province also vowed to fulfil its duty of meaningful consultation with Indigenous people concerning this project, including consultations regarding potential impacts to Aboriginal rights and title &ndash; a responsibility that has been identified in several court cases, government stated. That duty must be fulfilled as consultation relates to environmental assessment certificate requirements. Until these consultations are completed in a way that meets the province&rsquo;s legal obligations, work on the project on public lands cannot proceed. &ldquo;Going forward we will be reviewing policies to outline how our government expects to further meet our commitments to First Nations as well as to all British Columbians with regard to defending our air, land and water. This policy review will clarify government policy for decision-makers as they evaluate future permits and work plans,&rdquo; said Heyman. Kinder Morgan responded on Thursday, saying it takes seriously the comments from the province of British Columbia and will be carefully reviewing its statements and the steps outlined. &ldquo;Trans Mountain remains ready and willing to meet with the government to work through their concerns and the issues raised by them today,&rdquo; the company said in a statement. &ldquo;We are committed to working with the province and permitting authorities in our ongoing process of seeking and obtaining necessary permits and permissions. We have undertaken thorough, extensive and meaningful consultations with Aboriginal Peoples, communities and individuals and remain dedicated to those efforts and relationships as we move forward with construction activities in September,&rdquo; said Kinder Morgan Canada president Ian Anderson.