JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Employees at dual-listed Sibanye&rsquo;s Cooke operations, near Westonaria, Gauteng, have embarked on an illegal and unprotected industrial strike, following the company&rsquo;s attempts to combat illegal mining, which is threatening the mine&rsquo;s sustainability. Sibanye gold division CEO Wayne Robinson noted on Friday that illegal mining was not only threatening the safety of Sibanye employees and surrounding communities, but also the viability of operations. Despite the miner communicating its concerns about illegal mining to employees, and receiving agreement from majority union National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) that its members would not strike, employees nevertheless embarked on the unprotected strike before Tuesday&rsquo;s nightshift. &ldquo;This strike action supports our view that there is significant collusion taking place throughout the industry that supports this illegal and dangerous activity,&rdquo; said Robinson. Seventy-one illegal miners have surfaced from Cooke&rsquo;s underground operations and been arrested since the start of the unprotected strike, highlighting the extent of the problem. Sibanye has noted that the strike was associated with threats and intimidation from Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) members. NUM had reported that 16 of its members were allegedly attacked and assaulted by alleged AMCU members while going to work on Wednesday morning. Four of the 16 members who were attacked are in critical condition and three were airlifted to Milpark hospital, in Johannesburg. &ldquo;We condemn any violence and intimidation against employees and will take appropriate action against any perpetrators,&rdquo; said Robinson. Sibanye said in a statement that, owing to the intimidation and violence, it has increased security in the areas surrounding the mines and routes to the operations to ensure the safety of employees who wish to report for work. Meanwhile, an interdict against the strike was granted by the Labour Court on Thursday. However, despite communicating to members that the interdict had been issued and the consequences of persisting with the strike, Sibanye employees have yet to return to work. As a result, dismissal procedures have been implemented against striking employees.