KATOWICE, Poland &ndash; Trade unions at Poland&#39;s state-owned coal producer KHW agreed on Wednesday to a merger with bigger rival PGG in a move that makes a deal more likely to happen before an end March deadline, a deputy energy minister said. KHW needs about one-billion zlotys ($245-million) to keep going and Poland has said that unless the two coal mining firms merge before the end of the first quarter KHW might collapse. The company&#39;s management board and energy ministry officials wanted the union consent before starting talks with potential investors and KHW bondholders about details of the merger. &quot;This opens a very important stage of talks with the remaining parties. We have the agreement and we are starting talks with the investors today,&quot; said Grzegorz Tobiszowski, deputy energy minister responsible for coal industry restructuring. PGG, the biggest coal mining firm in Poland, owns five mines with annual output of about 30-million tonnes and KHW produces some ten-million tonnes of coal a year from four mines. PGG and KHW employ 32 000 and 13 000 people respectively. State-run utility Enea has already pledged to help KHW with its financial difficulties, as has state-owned coal trader Wegloks and investment vehicle TF Silesia. Local media also reported that the energy ministry has asked state-run refiner PKN Orlen to inject 400-million zlotys into the merged PGG and KHW. Tobiszowski said that a direct investment by PKN into the merged companies was not being considered. &quot;However, the current shareholders in PGG could capitalise the (mining) company,&quot; Tobiszowski said, without providing details. The restructuring of Polish coal mining firms, which faced rising output costs, falling coal prices and coal surpluses - has involved help from other state-run firms. In April last year, state-run utilities Energa, PGE, and PGNiG agreed to invest 500-million zlotys each in PGG and became the company&#39;s shareholders. Tobiszowski said talks with banks, which hold KHW bonds worth 1.2-billion zlotys, were scheduled for Thursday.