JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; A new trail for resource expansion is in &ldquo;full swing&rdquo; at nickel-copper resource developer Amur Minerals&rsquo; Kubuk and Ikenskoe/Sobolevsky deposits, in Russia, with a drilling programme having recently been completed. &ldquo;We are drill testing the largest target with a length of 2 500 m located between the two deposit, similar to the approach which was successfully implemented at the Maly Kurumkon/Flangovy deposit,&rdquo; CEO Robin Young outlined. Drilling along this target could ultimately result in the linking up of the two deposits, creating a single deposit up to 5 km in length and, thus, making it the longest single deposit at Kun-Manie.&nbsp; Successful drilling could also result in a substantial increase in both the resource and reserve. Infill drilling of the currently defined inferred mineral resource estimate of 10.9-million tonnes, averaging 0.74% nickel and 0.20% copper, has been completed, with eight infill holes having defined an average of 0.80% nickel and 0.27% copper at an average thickness of 22.6 m per ore hole. The infill drilling is intended to convert the inferred resource to indicated. Four holes, averaging 19.8 m in thickness, 0.80% nickel and 0.21% copper, have also been completed. A fifth hole is presently under analysis by Amur&#39;s site sample preparation facility and substantial sulphide mineralisation is present indicating economic grades of nickel and copper are likely present. Amur&rsquo;s overall drilling programme will be undertaken in a phased approach with the initial focus on defining the limits of the mineralisation at depth along a 600-m-long area and the completion of infill drilling to convert inferred resource to indicated. &quot;Working in the steepest and most challenging terrain at Kun-Manie, our new trail is comprised of drill roads and drill pads that are being constructed along the length of this target. Both drill rigs are now drilling some of the deepest holes on site as we follow newly defined mineralisation outward in incremental steps,&rdquo; said Young.