PERTH (minigweekly.com) &ndash; ASX-listed OreCorp will raise A$20.6-million through a share placement to institutional and sophisticated investors to fast-track the development of its Nyanzaga gold project, in Tanzania. The company will place 43-million ordinary shares at an issue price of 48c each to investors in North America, Europe and Australia. The shares will be placed under the company&rsquo;s existing capacity. &ldquo;The funds will allow OreCorp to fast-track the definitive feasibility study (DFS) and potential development of Nyanzaga and to aggressively pursue exploration programmes at both Nyanzaga and the Akjoujt South project,&rdquo; said OreCorp CEO and MD Matthew Yates. &ldquo;The company now has the funding in place to further compress the anticipated development schedule for the project, allowing OreCorp to achieve its strategic objective of becoming a gold producer in the near term, while delivering significant shareholder returns.&rdquo; Funds will be used to complete a DFS, as well as permitting and licensing during the second half of 2017, while also providing predevelopment approval capital for front-end engineering design and preconstruction site activities. Follow-up drilling at both Nyanzaga and Akjoujt South will also be funded. A recent prefeasibility study into the Nyanzaga project has estimated that it could deliver some 213 000 oz/y of gold over a 12-year mine life. A capital investment of $287-million will be required to develop the project, with concurrent openpit and underground mining to take place. The openpit operation is expected to deliver some 1.75-million ounces of contained gold over the life of the project, which is 25% higher than estimated in the previously completed scoping study for the pit. Underground mining, which would start in the first year of operation, is expected to produce some 1.16-million ounces of contained gold, with the underground operation to be developed to a depth of 800 m below surface, while the deposit remains open at depth.