JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza was unable to attend a community engagement imbizo in the Steve Tshwete local municipality, in Mpumalanga, regarding the third iteration of the Mining Charter, last week, as he was out of the country on an official trade and investment trip to Russia, said Mpumalanga Office of the Premier spokesperson Zibonele Mncwango. Speaking to Mining Weekly Online on Monday, Mncwango stated that Mpumalanga Finance, Economic Development and Tourism MEC Sikhumbuzo&nbsp; Eric Kholwane had been invited by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) to attend the event as a representative of the local government. However, owing to the late notice, he was also unable to attend. &ldquo;[Nonetheless,] the provincial government condemns the disruption of the DMR&rsquo;s meeting, as all political principals have the right to engage with local communities and clarify government programmes,&rdquo; he said. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane was, on Friday, forced to leave the community engagement imbizo after being heckled by sections of the audience ostensibly appearing to be related to newly formed civil society grouping Practical Radical Economic Transformation. Mncwango commented that the Premier&rsquo;s office urged communities to continue to be active in engaging government leadership, but stressed that this should be done in a respectful and peaceful fashion. He stated that his government condemned in the &ldquo;strongest terms&rdquo; the actions of this newly formed civil society organisation and its members for disrupting the imbizo. Mncwango further remarked that the notwithstanding their absence the Premier and his officials were trying to create a good relationship between the mines and local communities in the province, highlighting that an area of contention for communities was the high unemployment among communities where mines are in operation or being developed. Mncwango mentioned that Mabuza had and continued to facilitate discussions between the parties about this sensitive issue. He pointed out that one of the reasons identified by the Premier for the high levels of unemployment was the lack of mining-related skills in the local communities. Mncwango revealed to Mining Weekly Online that Mabuza was, in partnership with mining houses, establishing a skills hub to address the skills shortage among community members, thereby increasing their employability potential. He said it was the hope of the local government that the DMR would reschedule the meeting soon to allow for local community members to learn more about the new Mining Charter and provide their input on it. The DMR was approached by Mining Weekly to provide input, but declined to comment.