JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Aim-listed Goldplat has appointed Werner Klingenberg FD and Sango Ntsaluba nonexecutive director, with immediate effect. Ntsaluba is chairperson of Goldplat&rsquo;s South African subsidiary Goldplat Recovery and is a well-known figure in the accountancy and auditing profession of South Africa. He is the cofounder of NMT Capital and also an executive chairperson at the diversified investment holding group. During his 30-year career he successfully founded one of South Africa largest accounting firms, Sizwe Ntsaluba Gobodo.&nbsp; Ntsaluba has extensive corporate experience in areas that include logistics and the automotive industry, and he currently serves as an independent board member of global industrial company Barloworld and is responsible for chairing the company&#39;s audit committee.&nbsp;He also serves on the boards of branded food and beverage products producer and distributor Pioneer Foods, as well as diversified construction company Basil Read. Klingenberg formerly held the position of group financial manager at Goldplat and, therefore, has a solid knowledge and understanding of the company&#39;s gold recovery and mining operations. He takes over as FD from Ian Visagie who remains on the board as an executive director, with Visagie continuing to offer valuable input from his experiences as a founder, FD and previous acting CEO at Goldplat. Klingenberg initially qualified as a chartered accountant with professional service firm Deloitte South Africa. He has accrued significant commercial experience, both within Southern Africa and at an international level and has extensive knowledge in audit management, as well as financial management and systems. Klingenberg joined Goldplat in 2015 as group financial manager, having previously worked in the telecommunications and retail industries.&nbsp; Goldplat added that Klingenberg&rsquo;s wealth of experience makes him best suited for the role of FD. &ldquo;Together, [Ntsaluba and Klingenberg] will be critical in supporting the continued growth of Goldplat as it looks to build its productivity and profitability,&rdquo; the company said in a statement. Goldplat&rsquo;s growth is currently being driven by its expanding gold recovery operations in South Africa and Ghana, as well as the construction of a new processing facility to increase capacity at its Kilimapesa mine, in Kenya. &ldquo;I am delighted to welcome [Ntsaluba] and [Klingenberg] to the board. Their individual experience, both at the corporate and financial level, will be invaluable to our company as we continue to deliver on our long-term growth strategy of increasing gold productivity and profitability,&rdquo; said Goldplat nonexecutive chairperson Matthew Robinson.&nbsp; He added that the company is already seeing value from expanding its gold recovery operations, as well as from its strategy to increase processing capacity at Kilimapesa. &ldquo;I believe our company is entering a new phase of growth [and]&nbsp;I look forward to working with [Ntsaluba] and [Klingenberg], together with the rest of our board, as we look to build sustainable growth and generate meaningful value for our shareholders,&quot; Robinson concluded.