BAMAKO &ndash; A subsidiary of UK mining firm Hummingbird Resources is on course to start production at an $88-million opencast gold mine in Mali this year, its director and Mali&#39;s Minister for Mines told Reuters. The Komana mine south of the capital Bamako is operated by the Soci&eacute;t&eacute; des Mines de Komana (SMK) and has proven reserves of 700 000 oz, or around 20 t, in its mine plan and an all-in production cost of $695/oz. It is expected to produce 132 000 oz during the first year of its seven-year life span but Hummingbird business development manager Robert Monro said on Tuesday total resources stood at 2.2-million ounces and there was scope for further development and underground mining. Mali is Africa&#39;s third largest gold producer after South Africa and Ghana and the country produced 50.9 t last year. The commodity contributes around 25 percent of government revenue. &quot;The aim is to mine the first gold in the last third of 2017,&quot; said SMK director Saidou Ide. Mines Minister Ti&eacute;moko Sangar&eacute; told Reuters on Monday after a visit to Komana that production would start in December. Komana, which is also called the Yanfolila project, is an important project for London-listed Hummingbird, a small miner that founded the Dugbe project in Liberia but decided against developing it because of low gold prices in 2013, Monro said. &quot;It (Komana) is integral to our business, our primary focus. We need to deliver on Komana and continue delivering on it and we will be looking to increase the mine life,&quot; he said, adding that the company also envisaged developing Dugbe later, although costs there were higher. Up to 1 300 artisanal miners from Mali work at the Komana site on a seasonal basis and some have been moved from the first pit to a different area after negotiations, he said, adding that the artisanal miners extract up to 2 000 oz/y. Hummingbird owns 80% of the company while the rest is held by the Malian state. Debt finance for the project was agreed last month with Coris Bank International, which is based in Burkina Faso.