PERTH (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Queensland gas producer Arrow Energy, the joint venture between Shell and PetroChina, has announced that it will undertake front-end engineering design (FEED) for a major expansion of its Tipton gas project, in the Surat basin. &ldquo;The planned expansion of Arrow&rsquo;s Tipton operations is expected to involve 90 new wells in the initial phase and another 180 wells over the next 25 years &ndash; along with new gathering lines, an upgraded water treatment facility and four new compressors,&rdquo; said Arrow Energy CEO Qian Mingyang. The project will involve a significant upgrade of existing facilities and will more than double production capacity from Tipton to more than 80 TJ/d. The Tipton expansion follows a recent investment by Arrow of more than A$600-million in its Surat basin infrastructure, comprising the A$500-million Daandine expansion project, commissioned in late 2016, and commencement of a A$100-million Produce the Limit project earlier this year, to expand capacity at its Daandine and Tipton fields. Together, the expansion projects will bring Arrow&rsquo;s Surat gas production to more than 170 TJ/d, for domestic and export use. Qian said that after FEED was complete, shareholders would consider a final investment decision. He said that in addition to these expansion activities, collaboration with industry proponents would be important in bringing Arrow&rsquo;s sizeable gas reserves into the east coast gas market. &ldquo;I am expecting that we will reach agreement on a path to market for the majority of Arrow&rsquo;s Surat basin gas reserves later this year.&rdquo; The Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association (Appea) said that Arrow&rsquo;s FEED announcement was good news for Queensland and the east coast domestic gas market. Appea Queensland director Rhys Turner said that Arrow&rsquo;s announcement showed that Queensland-based operators continue to do &quot;the heavy lifting&quot; in getting more gas to market. &ldquo;This initiative, coupled with the recent announcement by QGC, a Shell joint venture, that it will soon start drilling up to 161 additional wells as part of project Ruby, shows the industry in Queensland is getting on with the job.&rdquo; Turner said that the only way to meet gas demand for exports, domestic manufacturing, and energy generation, in a sustainable manner, was to increase supply. The Queensland Resources Council has also welcomed Arrow&rsquo;s news, with CEO Ian Macfarlane expressing the hope that other states would follow Queensland&rsquo;s lead and open up gas reserves to help fix the energy crisis on the east coast.