VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Quebec provincial government, under leadership of Quebec Liberal Party premier Philippe Couillard, has approved the proposed $200-million expansion of the Canadian Malartic mine, owned and operated 50/50 by Agnico Eagle Mines and Yamana Gold. The expansion will see the diversion of Highway 117 at a cost of $53-million. Preliminary work will start in the coming weeks after obtaining the required authorisations, including the relocation of public services. Deforestation and the construction of a temporary bridge over Highway 117 are among the first steps. The highway diversion will allow the mine to access the Barnat zone, which has softer ore and could allow for higher throughputs. The 203-million tonnes, on a 100% basis, of reported reserves as at December 31, include the Barnat zone and could allow the mine to continue production for a further six years to 2027. The provincial government announced the project approval on Wednesday, essentially allowing the footprint of the significant openpit mine, located on the doorstep of the town of Malartic, to double. &ldquo;Canadian Malartic worked with the local community to ensure that the project was well understood and in line with the strategic vision for mineral development, which aims to enable Quebec strengthen its position as a leader in responsible mining development, prevent and mitigate environmental impacts and promote citizen participation and transparency,&rdquo; the provincial government said in a statement. The authorisation is accompanied by nine new conditions, five of which relate to sound climate management. The expansion is also expected to safeguard or consolidate some 1 250 jobs. Management of the Canadian Malartic mine welcomed the decision, saying the authorisation marks a significant social and economic milestone for Malartic and the region. &ldquo;This decision is a first step and recognition of the many efforts made by the Canadian Malartic mine team to improve its practices since the acquisition of the mine in June 2014,&rdquo; management said in a separate statement. The operation is, however, beset by concerns from residents, who have launched a class action lawsuit against the miner on the back of the impacts they allege to have suffered since the operation started. In a critical report published last October, the Public Hearing on the Environment (BAPE) concluded that Quebec&#39;s environmental laws are inadequate to regulate the operation of an openpit mine such as Of Canadian Malartic. Likewise, the BAPE believes that the government did not use &ldquo;the coercive means&rdquo; at its disposal to enforce the regulations in force. According to the report, since 2011, the operator has not been able to demonstrate that it can operate this openpit mine in an urban environment in accordance with the legal requirements imposed on it. The report found the company frequently exceeded the standards and criteria for noise, dust and vibrations, which resulted in recurring notices of non-compliance issued.