JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority&rsquo;s (EPA&rsquo;s) recommendation against approval of two mid-west banded iron formation (BIF) mines is a disappointing decision, Western Australia Chamber of Minerals and Energy (CME) natural resources manager Kane Moyle said on Wednesday. The EPA found that mining the area would cause permanent and irreversible environmental impacts; however, Moyle argues that each proposal &ldquo;represents a small fraction of disturbance to the total landform&rdquo;. The EPA&rsquo;s recommendations that Mineral Resources&#39; Jackson 5 and Bungalbin East iron-ore project in the Yilgarn area, and Sinosteel Midwest&rsquo;s Blue Hills Mungada East expansion in the Midwest, are both environmentally unacceptable were now with the state&rsquo;s Environment Minister Stephen Dawson for a final decision. EPA chairperson Dr Tom Hatton said BIFs were highly biodiverse ranges set in predominantly flat landscapes and among the oldest landforms on earth, providing specialised habitats for plants, animals and ecological communities. Once mined, restoration of the impacted landforms would not be possible. &ldquo;These proposals would significantly and permanently impact the environmental integrity of distinctive formations supporting some of the highest biodiversity and social values in their respective regions,&rdquo; Hatton said. &ldquo;As high points in the landscape, they are cooler and wetter than the surrounding plains, acting as &lsquo;terrestrial island&rsquo; habitats for unique and rare plants and animals.&rdquo; The two separate EPA assessments involved site visits, extensive public consultation, and analysis of the potential impacts on multiple environmental factors before concluding that, overall, the proposals were environmentally unacceptable and should not be implemented. JACKSON 5 AND BUNGALBIN PROJECT The project proposes to construct and operate two new iron-ore mines and associated infrastructure about 100 km north of Southern Cross in the Shire of Yilgarn. The proposed mining areas would be located on BIF landforms on the Helena-Aurora Range located within the Mount Manning - Helena-Aurora Ranges Conservation Park. The EPA, which received 1 487 public submissions during an eight-week consultation period, examined the proposal against seven key environmental factors &ndash; flora and vegetation, subterranean fauna, terrestrial fauna, hydrological processes, inland waters environmental quality, social surroundings and landforms. As the proposal is being assessed under the Commonwealth Bilateral Agreement, the Commonwealth Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg will also need to make a decision on the proposal&rsquo;s future. BLUE HILLS MUNGADA EAST EXPANSION The Blue Hills Mungada East expansion proposes to expand its existing hematite mining operations on the Mungada Ridge, 66 km north-east of Perenjori. The project includes a mine pit, waste rock dump, processing infrastructure area and haul and access roads. Seven public submissions were provided to the EPA during the six-week consultation period, with the independent authority assessing the environmental acceptability of the proposal against four key environmental factors &ndash; landforms, flora and vegetation, terrestrial fauna and social surroundings. Hatton said despite efforts by both proponents to mitigate potential impacts, including revising the proposals to reduce the disturbance footprints, the independent board had recommended neither proposal should be implemented. The EPA&rsquo;s reports to the Environment Minister are open for a two-week public appeal period, closing July 12.