VANCOUVER (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Police have used teargas to clear a public road near the town of Casillas, in south-east Guatemala, of protesters blocking access to Canadian miner Tahoe resources&rsquo; controversial Escobal mine, the third-largest silver mine in the world. The TSX- and NYSE-listed miner said in a statement on Friday that the Guatemalan government has taken legal action to disburse protestors and open the primary road that connects Guatemala City to San Rafael las Flores, near the Escobal mine, after locals blocked access early this week in protests relating to a variety of issues, including claims that mining at Escobal is causing seismic activity 16 km away in Casillas. The Vancouver-based miner, which stands to answer for its human rights record in Guatemala in the British Columbia court system, said the police action followed days of illegal blockage and extensive dialogue between protesters, government and the company to resolve the blockade. Tahoe said it is not aware of any serious injuries because of the action. &ldquo;The company has worked diligently to engage numerous stakeholders, including the VP of Guatemala, the Ministry of Energy and Mines, the Ministry of the Environment, human rights ombudsman, representatives of the Catholic Church and diplomatic missions involved in human rights monitoring to attempt to resolve the matter peacefully,&rdquo; the company stated. Tahoe affirmed its commitment to the human and civil rights of Guatemalan people and supports communities&#39; rights to freedom of expression and assembly in a lawful manner. It added that it equally supports others negatively affected by the illegal road blockage, such as employees, suppliers and non-protesting citizens&#39; rights to free passage and work. Tahoe said it embraces the &lsquo;Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights&rsquo;, which guide law enforcement in appropriate use of force and respect for human rights. Established in 2000, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are a set of principles designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. Tahoe vowed to continue to work with government, community leaders and others to resolve any on-going concerns by the protestors. The Guatemalan National Institute of Seismology, Volcanology, Meteorology and Hydrology has confirmed that Escobal operations are not causing the naturally occurring seismic activity in the Casillas area. Tahoe said it sees no reason to believe that its guidance will be affected by the protest. The company expects to produce between 18-million and 20-million ounces of silver, and between 375 000 oz and 425 000 oz of gold this year. All-in sustaining costs are expected to range between $9.50/oz and $10.50/oz of silver and $1 150/oz to $1 250/oz of gold.